This page list some open questions; questions that should be studied and if deemed worthwhile added to LessonsLearned.

## Are peer IDs needed? ##

In BitTorrent, the peer ID is generated by the peer itself. Consequently:

  * It is impossible to guarantee uniqueness (although the ID space is huge: 20 bytes).
  * Any peer can have multiple "personalities," and may even impersonate other peers in the swarm.

To a degree, some of these problems (mainly uniqueness) can be avoided when centralized elements, such as trackers, are in use. Some trackers even "verifies" the peer credentials (peer ID, IP address, and port number) by trying to connect to the peer. However, multiple trackers can exist for the same swarm making it harder. Furthermore, decentralized tracking opens up other issues. The peer ID should therefore mostly be seen as a convinience: an easy way for the tracker to tell peers apart, and a method to ensure a small amount of accountability.

It is clear that both the tracker and peer need some way to tell peers apart. From the compact tracker response format, though, peer IDs are not included to safe bandwidth. The question is whether the IP address and the port number provides enough information.

## Are open source downloaders more altruistic? ##

Basically the (somewhat tongue in cheek) question is, whether anything can be said about the possible participants in a GitTorrent swarm, e.g. in terms of their willingness to contribute bandwidth? Furthermore, should any such assumption affect choices in the protocol? The obvious answer is of course **no!** but it might still be relevant to keep it in mind when giving guidelines for things like download strategy.

## Are seeder-to-seeder connections useful? ##

Since new repository data can appear at anytime, no (or very few) peers will remain seeders over time. Some research (in network topology) suggests that during the lifetime of a network certain nodes will inherently become "hubs" or "super nodes" due to their superior connectivity. Assuming that this type of connectivity is mainly gained by being more interesting to other peers and by being longer in the network, seeds or "near-completed" peers are probably most likely to be put into the role of super nodes. Contrary to BitTorrent, keeping seeder-to-seeder connection might be something the protocol can capitalize on as a method for spreading reference updates faster to all the network.

This raises another question related to the exchange of peer addresses over the peer-wire protocol. If seeder-to-seeder connections are not allowed, should seeders also offer to send this type of message since non-seeders will likely be more interested in seeders to have more options to download from?