#summary A few lines on the history and status of the protocol.
#labels Draft

The idea of a peer-to-peer protocol for distributing git repositories was first discussed on the #git IRC channel, where from the name given to this protocol proposal also comes. Given git's use of SHA1 for content-addressing and data integrity verification, something it shared with BitTorrent, the name "!GitTorrent" seems like a natural attribute and testament  to the strong foundation on which the protocol proposal is built.

The status of the protocol is that to this date it is still pretty much vaporware. Nothing has been proven yet: not the concept, not the nice intensions, or even if there is a need for this protocol.

== Initial RFC Draft ==

The [http://jonas.nitro.dk/gittorrent/rfc.html first incarnation of the RFC], here referred to as the initial RFC draft, was the result of a [http://gittorrent.googlecode.com/files/Fonseca-2006.pdf project] done at the Department of Computer Science, University of Copenhagen ([http://www.diku.dk DIKU]) in 2006.

The protocol proposed in the initial RFC draft tried to reuse as much as possible from git's existing protocols in the exchange of the repository database. The result was a protocol that basically worked somewhat similar to git's "dumb" HTTP fetcher, which uses index files to discover which pack files contain interesting objects.

*RFC*: ([http://jonas.nitro.dk/gittorrent/rfc.html HTML]) ([http://jonas.nitro.dk/gittorrent/rfc.xml XML]).

== Commit Reel RFC Draft ==

TODO: Write about the [http://gittorrent.utsl.gen.nz/rfc.html Extended RFC] by Sam Vilain [http://utsl.gen.nz/gitweb/?p=gittorrent (gitweb)] [http://utsl.gen.nz/gitweb/?p=gittorrent;a=blob_plain;f=rfc.xml;hb=HEAD (xml)].